# GP-Bayesian Parameter Estimation for ODEs

This folder implements GP-Bayesian parameter estimation for systems of ODEs that are linear in the parameters of interest.

## Main Routines

- [`main.py`](./main.py): run an experiment and show/save results.
- [`step1_generate_data.py`](./step1_generate_data.py): generate experimental snapshot data.
- [`step3_estimate.py`](./step3_estimate.py): solve the Bayesian parameter inference problem, selecting the regularization hyperparameters automatically. Construct the posterior.
- [`step4_plot.py`](./step4_plot.py): plotting tools.

## Links

- [`step2_fitgps.py`](./step2_fitgps.py): fit Gaussian processes to data (same as the single-trajectory case).
- [`baseplots.py`](../codebase/baseplots.py): utilities for plotting experiment results.
- [`bayes.py`](../codebase/bayes.py): Bayesian posterior models.
- [`gpkernels.py`](../codebase/gpkernels.py): GP kernels and regression matrices.
- [`pde_models.py`](../models/pde_models.py): full-order partial differential equations models.
- [`wlstsq.py`](../codebase/wlstsq.py): weighted least-squares solvers.

## Utilities

- [`config.py`](./config.py): configure settings (matplotlib, file/folder names, etc.).
- [`config_heat.py`](./config_heat.py): simulation scenario for the heat equation problem.
- [`utils.py`](./utils.py): define tools for loading data and saving figures.

## Reports

- [`runlog.sh`](./runlog.sh): Log of commands used to run the experiments reported in the paper.

## Data

These folders are not tracked by git, but may be generated by running the code.

- **data/**: experiment results for visualizations.
- **figures/**: saved figures, organized by date.
